docs: Module 3 Multistore Keepers - code sample integration (B9lab updates 2-3-a) (#849)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: b9lab-content/3-main-concepts/10-multistore-keepers.md

> 

Reviewer: Fixed.

BaseApp holds an anteHandler as a parameter that is initialized in the application's constructor. The most widely used anteHandler is the auth module.

> More info: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/basics/gas-fees.md#antehandler + https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/basics/gas-fees.md

Reviewer 2: Don't think we need to have two links to the same article. Would also suggesting adding the antihandler doc on docs.cosmos.network

```suggestion
More info: https://docs.cosmos.network/master/modules/auth/03_antehandlers.html + https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/basics/gas-fees.md#antehandler
```

Reviewer: Updated.

<ExpansionPanel title="Show me some code for my checkers blockchain">

> In the [Accounts](./04-accounts) section, you were introduced to the elements of the stored game, but were left in the dark about where this game is stored. In light of what you learned above, let's remedy that.

Reviewer 2: Style suggestion

```suggestion
In the [Accounts](./04-accounts) section, you were introduced to the elements of the stored game, but were left in the dark about where this game is stored. In light of what you learned above, let's fix that.
```

## Game Object in Storage

> You need to decide under what structure to store a game in storage. The Cosmos SDK partitions the global storage per module, with `checkers` being its own module. Therefore, you need to take care of how to store games in the checkers' module's own corner of the key / value pair storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to decide under what structure to store a game in storage. The Cosmos SDK partitions the global storage per module, with `checkers` being its own module. Therefore, you need to take care of how to store games in the checkers module's own corner of the key / value pair storage.
```

> The first idea would be to attribute a unique id to a game and to store the game value at that id. However, for the sake of clarity and so as to be able to differentiate with other stored elements in the future, you ought to add a prefix to that id. In pseudo-Go-code, the storage structure would therefore look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first idea would be to attribute a unique id to a game and to store the game value at that id. However, for the sake of clarity and so as to be able to differentiate with other stored elements in the future, you ought to add a prefix to that id. In pseudo Go code, the storage structure would therefore look like this:
```

Interestingly, the `KVStore` allows you to obtain an iterator on a given prefix. In effect, because all stored games share the same prefix, this means you can list all stored games, which you would do like so:

```go
func (k Keeper) GetAllStoredGame(ctx sdk.Context) (list []types.StoredGame) {
    checkersStore := ctx.KVStore(k.storeKey)
    gamesStore := prefix.NewStore(checkersStore, []byte(types.StoredGameKey))
    iterator := sdk.KVStorePrefixIterator(gamesStore, []byte{}) // []byte{} is an empty array

    defer iterator.Close() // Think of it as: try { everything below } finally { iterator.Close() }

    for ; iterator.Valid(); iterator.Next() {
        var storedGame types.StoredGame
        k.cdc.MustUnmarshalBinaryBare(iterator.Value(), &storedGame)
        list = append(list, storedGame)
    }

    return
}
```
Notice the `MustMarshalBinaryBare` and `MustUnmarshalBinaryBare` functions in the `codec` above. They need to be instructed as to how to proceed with the marshaling. Fortunately, Protobuf took care of this for us. See the [previous section](./09-protobuf) for that.

> ## Boilerplate Boilerplate Everywhere!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Boilerplate, Boilerplate Everywhere!
```

    ```go
    return &types.MsgCreateGameResponse{
        IdValue: newIndex,
    }, nil
    ```

As for `MsgPlayMoveResponse` and `MsgRejectGame`, you would do the same and is left as an exercise.

## More on Game Theory

When you introduced the [messages](./07-messages), there remained the question of what to do when a player does not play ball.

Time to introduce the game deadline:

```go
const (
    MaxTurnDurationInSeconds = time.Duration(24 * 3_600 * 1000_000_000) // 1 day
    DeadlineLayout           = "2006-01-02 15:04:05.999999999 +0000 UTC"
)
type StoredGame struct {
    ...
    Deadline string
}
```
Set its initial value on creation:

```go
storedGame := types.StoredGame{
    ...
    Deadline: ctx.BlockTime().Add(types.MaxTurnDurationInSeconds).UTC().Format(types.DeadlineLayout),
}
```
Update its value after a move:

```go
storedGame.Deadline = ctx.BlockTime().Add(types.MaxTurnDurationInSeconds).UTC().Format(types.DeadlineLayout)
```
Extract and verify its value when necessary:

```go
deadline, err = time.Parse(DeadlineLayout, storedGame.Deadline)
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
if deadline.Before(ctx.BlockTime()) {
    // TODO
}
```

## How To Expire Games

> Ok, but when do you verify that the game has expired? An interesting feature of an ABCI application is that you can do some action at the end of each block. Should you load all games and filter for those that have expired? No. That would be extremely expensive. Better keep a FIFO where fresh games are pushed back to the tail and therefore the head contains the next games to expire.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ok, but when do you verify that the game has expired? An interesting feature of an ABCI application is that you can have it perform some actions at the end of each block. Should you load all games and filter for those that have expired? No. That would be extremely expensive. Better keep a FIFO where fresh games are pushed back to the tail so that the head contains the next games to expire.
```

```go
const (
    NoFifoIdKey = "-1"
)
type NextGame struct {
    ...
    FifoHead string
    FifoTail string
}
```
And to have each game know its relative position, and also the number of moves done, to assist the refunding logic on games with 0, 1 or 2+ moves:

```go
type StoredGame struct {
    ...
    MoveCount uint64
    BeforeId  string
    AfterId   string
}
```
Next, and this is left as an exercise, you need to code a regular FIFO whereby:

* Games are sent to the back when created or played on.
* Games are removed from the FIFO when they are finished or time out.

## When To Expire Games

Since you want to expire the games that have timed out at the end of a block, you need to hook your keeper to the right call. When building the whole application, the Cosmos SDK will call at various points into each module. The function it calls at each block's end looks like this:

```go
func (am AppModule) EndBlock(ctx sdk.Context, _ abci.RequestEndBlock) []abci.ValidatorUpdate {
    // TODO
    return []abci.ValidatorUpdate{}
}
```
This is where you write the necessary code, preferably in the keeper. For instance with:

```go
am.keeper.ForfeitExpiredGames(sdk.WrapSDKContext(ctx))
```

> Those among you with a well-placed paranoia must be asking whether you can ensure that the execution of this `EndBlock` does not become prohibitively expensive. After all, the number of games to potentially expire is unbounded, which is a recipe for disaster in the blockchain world. Is there a situation or an attack vector that would make this is a possibility?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those among you with a well-placed paranoia must be asking whether you can ensure that the execution of this `EndBlock` does not become prohibitively expensive. After all, the number of games to potentially expire is unbounded, which is a recipe for disaster in the blockchain world. Is there a situation or an attack vector that would make this a possibility? And what can we do to prevent it?
```

> Fortunately, the timeout duration is fixed and the same for all games. This means that those `n` games that all expire in a given block have all been created or updated at roughly the same time. Or in effect, at roughly the same block height `h` give or take a margin of error `h-1` and `h+1`. These created and updated games are in limited number, as per the validators rules. So if by any chance, all games in blocks `h-1`, `h` and `h+1` expire now, then the `EndBlock` function would have to expire 3 times as many games as a block can handle. This is the worst case scenario, and still sounds manageable.

Reviewer 2: What exactly is meant with "as per the validators rules" ? @xavierlepretre

Reviewer: When a validator builds the list of transactions that go into the next block it will propose, it also decides on the maximum number of transactions it will include. That's my understanding. Is that correct?

Since 1 tx can only create or update 1 game at a time, it follows that there are a limited number of games updated in each block.

Reviewer 2: @xavierlepretre  The max block size (in bytes) is an on-chain consensus parameter that can be changed through governance. Validators themselves have no choice here and cannot increase the size. So I would reword this as follows:

```suggestion
Fortunately, the timeout duration is fixed and the same for all games. This means that those `n` games that all expire in a given block have all been created or updated at roughly the same time. Or in effect, at roughly the same block height `h` give or take a margin of error `h-1` and `h+1`. These created and updated games are in limited number because, as per one of the chain consensus parameters, every block has a maximum size and a limited amount of transactions it can include. So if by any chance, all games in blocks `h-1`, `h` and `h+1` expire now, then the `EndBlock` function would have to expire 3 times as many games as a block can handle. This is the worst case scenario, and still sounds manageable.
```

> As a corollary, you should be careful about letting the game creator pick a timeout duration. That would open an avenue for a malicious actor to, for instance, stagger game creations over a large number of blocks, with decreasing timeouts, so that they all expire at the same time.

Reviewer 2: Keeping it simple :)
```suggestion
Because of this, you should be careful about letting the game creator pick a timeout duration. That would open an avenue for a malicious actor to, for instance, stagger game creations over a large number of blocks, with decreasing timeouts, so that they all expire at the same time.
```

## Gas costs

> The keeper also makes it easy for you to charge gas to the players as you see fit. Let's propose some ratios, which would have to be adjusted so it makes sense compared to the base transaction costs:

Reviewer 2: Added for clarity. Did I get this right @xavierlepretre ?

```suggestion
The keeper also makes it easy for you to charge gas to the players as you see fit. This is a gas fee that comes on top of the configured standard fee for transactions on your chain. Let's propose some ratios, which would have to be adjusted so it makes sense compared to the base transaction costs:
```

Reviewer: Yep. Added.

* Create game: costs 10. Conceptually, it should include the costs of closing a game. If that was not the case, the losing player would be incentivized to let the game hit its timeout.
* Play move: costs 1. You could make it cost 0 when the player loses the game, in order to incentivize the player to conclude the game instead of letting it hit the time out.

> * Reject: costs 0 because you want to incentivize cleaning up the state. This transaction would still cost what Cosmos SDK bills for transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Reject: costs 0 because you want to incentivize cleaning up the state. This transaction would still cost what your chain is configured to charge for basic transactions.
```

> So you define the cost:

Reviewer 2: Do we need to say where to define these costs? Or is it still abstract / theoretical @xavierlepretre ?

Reviewer: Here it is a bit abstract, a codey way of introducing the numbers.

```go
const (
    CreateGameGas = 10
    PlayMoveGas   = 1
    RejectGameGas = 0
)
```
Then, in your `MsgCreateGame` handler, you add the line:

```go
func (k msgServer) CreateGame(goCtx context.Context, msg *types.MsgCreateGame) (*types.MsgCreateGameResponse, error) {
    ...
    ctx.GasMeter().ConsumeGas(types.CreateGameGas, "Create game")
    ...
}
```

> Where and how much to charge for gas is an economics as well as a game theoretic concern. So you should think about what you want to incentivize or disincentivize, at which junctures, and charge accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Where and how much to charge for gas is an economical, as well as a game theoretical concern. So you should think about what you want to incentivize or disincentivize, at which junctures, and charge accordingly.
```
